README.md, before:

#Preconditions Library
####Support for Guava like Precondition error checking in Node.js

## ***** Release 1.0.2 has an npm install bug and has been deprecated!  Please update *****

<p>Ensuring a fail fast development environment can help developers find bugs quicker and easier.  
Ensuring all invariants are true at an initial point of contact will help you ensure this fail fast environment.  
This Preconditions library will assist you in doing just that by immediately throwing an Error
if any of your invariants fail.</p>

###High Level Info
There are three functions that are exposed from the library.
1. instance() - Create a testing suite passing in a single object.  Run a single, or multiple tests on the passed in object.
2. constructor() - Get the constructor function so you can extend the Preconditions library (see below for example).
3. singleton() - Get a singleton to verify a single value.

###Install
<pre>
    <code>
        npm install preconditions    
   </code>
</pre>

###Source Code
<pre>
    <code>
        https://github.com/corybill/Preconditions   
   </code>
</pre>

###Examples Using Instances (.instance())

####Setup Instance
1. Require the preconditions library - require("preconditions")
2. Call the .instance() function on the required preconditions.
3. Make an API call passing in a string representation of the variable you'd like to verify.
4. "String Representation" - Means using dot notation (i.e. "foo.deep.stringValue").
5. Looking at the object in the first code example, foo.deep.stringValue = "FOO"

Create and build the preconditions validator.
<pre>
    <code>
        var preconditions = require("preconditions").instance({
          foo: {
            deep: {
              stringValue: "FOO",
              numberValue: 10,
              functionValue: function () {},
              nonEmptyArray: ["some", "values"],
              emptyArray: [],
              finiteValue: -100,
              infiniteValue: Infinity,
              trueValue: true,
              falseValue: false,
              NaNValue: NaN,
              nullValue: null,
              regExpValue: /moe/,
              dateValue: new Date()
            }
          }
        });
        preconditions.shouldBeDefined("foo.deep.stringValue");
        preconditions.shouldBeDefined("foo.deep.emptyArray");
        preconditions.shouldBeUndefined("foo.deep.someValue");
        preconditions.shouldBeFunction("foo.deep.functionValue");
   </code>
</pre>
   
We can chain calls too.
<pre>
    <code>
        var preconditions = require("preconditions").instance(this);
        
        preconditions.shouldBeDefined("foo.deep.stringValue")
            .shouldBeDefined("foo.deep.emptyArray")
            .shouldBeUndefined("foo.deep.someValue")
            .shouldBeFunction("foo.deep.functionValue");
   </code>
</pre>

You can use the default error messages or you can pass in your own error message.  If you do not pass in an error message, then the default will be thrown.
<pre>
    <code>
        var preconditions = require("preconditions").instance(this);
                
        preconditions.shouldBeDefined("foo.deep.stringValue", "Custom error message.")
            .shouldBeDefined("foo.deep.emptyArray")
            .shouldBeUndefined("foo.deep.someValue", "Custom error message.")
            .shouldBeFunction("foo.deep.functionValue");
   </code>
</pre>

###Examples Using The Constructor (.constructor())

The Preconditions object itself is exposed so that you can extend the Preconditions class.
<pre>
    <code>
        var Preconditions = builder.constructor();
        
        function ChildClass(someObjectToTest) {
          Preconditions.call(this, someObjectToTest);
        }
        ChildClass.prototype = Object.create(Preconditions.prototype);
        ChildClass.prototype.shouldBeTrue = function (value, message) {
          var msg = message || this.ShouldBeTrue;
          if (value !== true) {
            throw new Error(msg);
          }
        };
  
        this.ShouldBeTrue = "ShouldBeTrue";
        this.childSut = new ChildClass(this.out);
        
        this.childSut.shouldNotBeFalsey(stringValue)
              .shouldBeDefined(stringValue)
              .shouldBeString(stringValue)
              .shouldNotBeFalsey(numberValue)
              .shouldBeDefined(numberValue)
              .shouldBeNumber(numberValue)
              .shouldBeTrue(false, "Value should be true (I am a custom error message).");
   </code>
</pre>

###Examples Using the Singleton (.singleton())

You can use a static instance to verify a single value.
<pre>
    <code>
        var preconditions = require("preconditions").singleton();
                
        preconditions.shouldBeDefined(someObj.valueOne, "Custom error message.")
            .shouldBeDefined(someObj.valueTwo)
            .shouldBeUndefined(someObj.valueThree, "Custom error message.")
            .shouldBeFunction(someObj.valueOne);
   </code>
</pre>

###API
<pre>
    <code>
        shouldBeDefined
        shouldBeUndefined
        shouldBeNonEmptyArray
        shouldBeArray
        shouldNotBeArray
        shouldBeObject
        shouldNotBeObject
        shouldBeEmpty
        shouldNotBeEmpty
        shouldBeFunction
        shouldNotBeFunction
        shouldBeString
        shouldNotBeString
        shouldBeNumber
        shouldNotBeNumber
        shouldBeFinite
        shouldBeInfinite
        shouldBeBoolean
        shouldNotBeBoolean
        shouldBeDate
        shouldNotBeDate
        shouldBeRegExp
        shouldNotBeRegExp
        shouldBeFalsey - Means that the value should be NaN || Null || undefined
        shouldNotBeFalsey - Means that the value should not be NaN && 
                                                 should not be Null &&
                                                 should not be undefined
    </pre>
</code>

###Missing API or Bugs
Please reach out to me (Cory Parrish) if you would like a new precondition added or if you think you have found bug.

Commit message:

Implemented all Guava functions and began updating documentation.

README.md, after:

#Preconditions Library
####Support for Guava like Precondition error checking in Node.js

## ***** Release 1.0.2 has an npm install bug and has been deprecated!  Please update *****

<p>Ensuring a fail fast development environment can help developers find bugs quicker and easier.  
Ensuring all invariants are true at an initial point of contact will help you ensure this fail fast environment.  
This Preconditions library will assist you in doing just that by immediately throwing an Error
if any of your invariants fail.</p>

###High Level Info
There are three functions that are exposed from the library.
1. instance() - Create a testing suite passing in a single object.  Run a single, or multiple tests on the passed in object.
2. constructor() - Get the constructor function so you can extend the Preconditions library (see below for example).
3. singleton() - Get a singleton to verify a single value.

###Install
<pre>
    <code>
        npm install preconditions    
   </code>
</pre>

###Source Code
<pre>
    <code>
        https://github.com/corybill/Preconditions   
   </code>
</pre>

###Examples Using Instances (.instance())

####Setup Instance
1. Require the preconditions library - require("preconditions")
2. Call the .instance() function on the required preconditions.
3. Make an API call passing in a string representation of the variable you'd like to verify.
4. "String Representation" - Means using dot notation (i.e. "foo.deep.stringValue").
5. Looking at the object in the first code example, foo.deep.stringValue = "FOO"

Create and build the preconditions validator.
<pre>
    <code>
        var preconditions = require("preconditions").instance({
          foo: {
            deep: {
              stringValue: "FOO",
              numberValue: 10,
              functionValue: function () {},
              nonEmptyArray: ["some", "values"],
              emptyArray: [],
              finiteValue: -100,
              infiniteValue: Infinity,
              trueValue: true,
              falseValue: false,
              NaNValue: NaN,
              nullValue: null,
              regExpValue: /moe/,
              dateValue: new Date()
            }
          }
        });
        preconditions.shouldBeDefined("foo.deep.stringValue");
        preconditions.shouldBeDefined("foo.deep.emptyArray");
        preconditions.shouldBeUndefined("foo.deep.someValue");
        preconditions.shouldBeFunction("foo.deep.functionValue");
   </code>
</pre>
   
We can chain calls too.
<pre>
    <code>
        var preconditions = require("preconditions").instance(this);
        
        preconditions.shouldBeDefined("foo.deep.stringValue")
            .shouldBeDefined("foo.deep.emptyArray")
            .shouldBeUndefined("foo.deep.someValue")
            .shouldBeFunction("foo.deep.functionValue");
   </code>
</pre>

You can use the default error messages or you can pass in your own error message.  If you do not pass in an error message, then the default will be thrown.
<pre>
    <code>
        var preconditions = require("preconditions").instance(this);
                
        preconditions.shouldBeDefined("foo.deep.stringValue", "Custom error message.")
            .shouldBeDefined("foo.deep.emptyArray")
            .shouldBeUndefined("foo.deep.someValue", "Custom error message.")
            .shouldBeFunction("foo.deep.functionValue");
   </code>
</pre>

###Examples Using The Constructor (.constructor())

The Preconditions object itself is exposed so that you can extend the Preconditions class.
<pre>
    <code>
        var Preconditions = builder.constructor();
        
        function ChildClass(someObjectToTest) {
          Preconditions.call(this, someObjectToTest);
        }
        ChildClass.prototype = Object.create(Preconditions.prototype);
        ChildClass.prototype.shouldBeTrue = function (value, message) {
          var msg = message || this.ShouldBeTrue;
          if (value !== true) {
            throw new Error(msg);
          }
        };
  
        this.ShouldBeTrue = "ShouldBeTrue";
        this.childSut = new ChildClass(this.out);
        
        this.childSut.shouldNotBeFalsey(stringValue)
              .shouldBeDefined(stringValue)
              .shouldBeString(stringValue)
              .shouldNotBeFalsey(numberValue)
              .shouldBeDefined(numberValue)
              .shouldBeNumber(numberValue)
              .shouldBeTrue(false, "Value should be true (I am a custom error message).");
   </code>
</pre>

###Examples Using the Singleton (.singleton())

You can use a static instance to verify a single value.
<pre>
    <code>
        var preconditions = require("preconditions").singleton();
                
        preconditions.shouldBeDefined(someObj.valueOne, "Custom error message.")
            .shouldBeDefined(someObj.valueTwo)
            .shouldBeUndefined(someObj.valueThree, "Custom error message.")
            .shouldBeFunction(someObj.valueOne);
   </code>
</pre>

###API
####Guava API
| Signature (not including extra args)               | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | Default Error Message                                                                       |
|----------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| checkArgument(boolean)                             | Checks that the boolean is true. Use for validating arguments to methods.                                                                                                                                                                                  | Illegal Argument.                                                                           |
| checkNotNull(T)                                    | Checks that the value is not null. Returns the value directly, so you can use checkNotNull(value) inline.                                                                                                                                                  | Variable should be defined.                                                                 |
| checkState(boolean)                                | Checks some state of the object, not dependent on the method arguments. For example, an Iterator might use this to check that next has been called before any call to remove.                                                                              | Illegal State.                                                                              |
| checkElementIndex(int index, int size)             | Checks that index is a valid element index into a list, string, or array with the specified size. An element index may range from 0 inclusive to sizeexclusive. You don't pass the list, string, or array directly; you just pass its size.Returns index.  | Index should be between between 0 (inclusive) and size (exclusive).                         |
| checkPositionIndex(int index, int size)            | Checks that index is a valid position index into a list, string, or array with the specified size. A position index may range from 0 inclusive to sizeinclusive. You don't pass the list, string, or array directly; you just pass its size.Returns index. | Index should be between between 0 (inclusive) and size (inclusive).                         |
| checkPositionIndexes(int start, int end, int size) | Checks that [start, end) is a valid sub range of a list, string, or array with the specified size. Comes with its own error message.                                                                                                                       | Start and End should be between valid sub range between 0 (inclusive) and size (inclusive). |
|                                                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |                                                                                             |
|                                                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |                                                                                             |
|                                                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |                                                                                             |
|                                                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |                                                                                             |
|                                                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |                                                                                             |
|                                                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |                                                                                             |
|                                                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |                                                                                             |
|                                                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |                                                                                             |
|                                                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |                                                                                             |

####Convenience Functions
<pre>
    <code>
        shouldBeDefined
        shouldBeUndefined
        shouldBeNonEmptyArray
        shouldBeArray
        shouldNotBeArray
        shouldBeObject
        shouldNotBeObject
        shouldBeEmpty
        shouldNotBeEmpty
        shouldBeFunction
        shouldNotBeFunction
        shouldBeString
        shouldNotBeString
        shouldBeNumber
        shouldNotBeNumber
        shouldBeFinite
        shouldBeInfinite
        shouldBeBoolean
        shouldNotBeBoolean
        shouldBeDate
        shouldNotBeDate
        shouldBeRegExp
        shouldNotBeRegExp
        shouldBeFalsey - Means that the value should be NaN || Null || undefined
        shouldNotBeFalsey - Means that the value should not be NaN && 
                                                 should not be Null &&
                                                 should not be undefined
    </pre>
</code>

###Missing API or Bugs
Please reach out to me (Cory Parrish) if you would like a new precondition added or if you think you have found bug.
